---
layout: signoff_post
title:  "Crito, by Plato"
date:   2025-01-13
categories: books
---

With the reading of Crito I am going to be actively taking notes and jotting down my thoughts rather than reading the dialogue and trying to remember what I thought of it after I read it. I think this can keep ideas fresh and help my extrapolation of the text.

Crito's argument conveys Polemarchus' idea in The Republic that justice is helping one's friends and harming one's enemies. Helping Socrates would fulfil the first part of this idea, and so he believes helping Socrates escape would be doing justice, and therefore acting virtuous. Socrates being a stubborn and thorny guy disagrees and stays to be executed. Socrates says that civic justice, his duty as an Athenian, would mean following the laws and accepting his sentence. He accepted this 'contract' when he chose to grow up and live as an Athenian, the city providing him education and vocation.

| I am confused with an aspect of Socrates' personality. He believes his own dreams as prophesy, that they hold real meaning of things that will happen. He tells Crito that he has an idea of the day he will be executed (tomorrow rather than today) due to a dream he was having just before Crito arrived. We know from Euthyphro that Socrates believes in the gods, therefore he is not above faith in metaphysical or mythological things, but am I to believe that wise Socrates considers himself an oracle as well? Looking into it further I can see now that believing in the prophesy of one's own dreams was an aspect of ancient Greek personality, that they were ["direct revelations from the gods"](https://www.penn.museum/sites/journal/586/). So this ideal is not unique to Socrates, and I should just be okay with his concept of dreams being align with the thoughts at the time. 

Crito argues that he will suffer not only the loss of a friend in Socrates, but a loss also of personal reputation since the public will think he valued his own money, which he has much of, over friendship if he did not help Socrates escape. Crito would be able to pull it off without a sweat. Socrates dismisses this and says we shouldn't care what people, specifically the majority, think; the majority can't do great harm because they don't do great good. He argues that a practitioner of an activity should listen to the few skilled teachers of the activity rather than the many unskilled. I think I can get on board with this, but I see Crito's case. Crito lives with the majority, he himself is a part of them. The public opinion of one's self has some sway into how one may feel about themselves, which is human. Sure a hockey player wants to do what his coach tells him, but the fans on the ice are going to boo him if the team plays bad (can you tell I'm still salty about the Vancouver game I went to a couple days ago). 

I personally side with Socrates here overall. With my only experience being that of modern western society, I don't think people would hold it against me if I was rich and let my friend be condemned to death by the government, no matter how stupid the matter of trial. It would make me guilty of a crime if I broke someone out of prison. Is all crime bad? That's debatable, but many crimes are bad. If my friend was being executed and being held in jail because his ideas inspired a dictator then I would be inclined to separate myself from them. That though is me siding with Crito, caring much about the opinions of the majority, though this also concerns the authority as well. Of course, we need to explore whether Socrates is guilty, especially of grooming dictators, but that is a whole other thing. I am assuming in this line of thought that Socrates is guilty to fit the narrative.