---
layout: signoff_post
title:  "Phaedo, by Plato"
date:   2025-01-27
categories: interest
---

This one hurt to get through. It is by far the longest of the five dialogues in the text, and is perhaps the most conceptually metaphysical.
Phaedo also drove me to take everything Socrates says with a grain of salt, and urged me to rethink about the words he is saying, looking deeper into some and shorter into others. After reading this dialogue, I cannot take seriously Plato's texts, or at least I cannot attribute them to having any logical meaning other than to make one think about the world. Possibly, this is the goal anyways. Mind you, this is the first dialogue where Plato himself specifies that he was not present, so it is clearly fiction. 
I disagree with Plato a lot, almost all of what was said in here, obviously, as it's a bunch of ancient men trying to understand the soul and coming up with ridiculous concepts to explain away competing arguments. 

Here's what happens in short. 
Socrates is about to die by hemlock (poison). His friends and followers surround him in his final moments and the soul is an obvious line of inquiry. As Socrates himself meditates on what happens to his own soul after death, he explains that a philosophers duty in whole is to prepare for death, that the body is only a restriction to obtaining knowledge, distracting the mind with the maintenance of it, and once released the soul will obtain the answers it seeks. The philosopher is not tied to the earth with bodily pleasures and so it is the most light and free in death when we compare it to a soul who was hung up on achievements and pleasures.
\
&emsp; Cebes says that this of course requires faith that the soul is not destroyed on death, and this sparks the debate. Socrates is completely convinced that the soul exists not only after death but before. He seems to hinge his entire belief on the 'truth' established in Meno, that knowledge is recollection from previous lives, and so it must exist before death, and therefore after as well. This of course is ridiculous, since the claim in Meno was already rocky to begin with. I do not accept his proof either, the demonstration with the slave, and so the entire Phaedo is lacking in logical and foundational evidence for me. Again, I am willing to admin that I am missing a critical piece that I may  have overlooked, but I do not know of any such evidence that can direct me to believe in such a fantastical idea. 
\
&emsp; Simmias and Cebes give their best arguments against, saying that the soul is like the harmony of a lute, and when the lute is destroyed the harmony is no longer able to be. This is shot down by Socrates, with ease, since the soul directs the body and the lute produces harmony, so the soul cannot be like harmony. More defences are given but they are all shot down, doubling down on the knowledge as recollection idea. If this is what a dying Socrates wants to belive going into death then fine, it's better than going in screaming, but other than easing the nerves of dying this argument holds no space in life. 
\
&emsp; Finally, Socrates drinks the hemlock and promptly shames his friends and followers for weeping as his wife had been before he sent her away (weird goodbye to your wife by the way), and then telling Crito that a sacrifice to Asclepius should be made.

The entire dialogue was metaphysics heavy and hard to follow. I tried to attack it in breaks but it is hard to pickup in chunks. Definitely my least favourite dialogue of the five, but at least I am now prepared to read The Republic if I ever wanted to.