---
layout: signoff_post
title:  "Meno, by Plato"
date:   2025-01-14
categories: interest
---

Meno is the fourth dialogue in ["Five Dialogues" 2nd edition](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30292.Five_Dialogues), translated by G.M.A. Grube.
I found this to be one of the better dialogues in the collection based on the metric of "did it effectively make me think", which I guess is the gimmick of all philosophical text. I was able to take notes along reading the dialogue but rather than just printing the notes here slightly edited as I did with [Crito](/books/2025/01/13/) I will expand on each idea here.

The main theme of the dialogue, or at least the theme Meno tries to contain Socrates within, is to question if one be taught to be virtue, or practise it, or are we inherently good or evil? This is a pretty popular debate topic even today. Socrates approaches this question as he always does: defining every single morsal of the question down to it's atomic truths and then logically building on it. This Socratic method is kind of painful to experience as Meno exclaims throughout the dialogue. In fact at one point he accuses Socrates of being a conjurer of spells, confusing his victims with circular speech. \
&emsp; But, out of this gripe comes a super potent lesson that I immediately connected with. If your teachings makes someone doubt a truth that they believed they knew before-hand, no longer fully understanding it, then you are turning them closer to the truth, and thus making them better. If they had true wisdome abouth something the their knowledge and understanding of it would never waver. Teaching does not always mean you are warping your student's mind into knowing the correct facts and truths about the world, it can also be about relieving them about harmful beliefs by making them question their own ideas and interpretations about them. This is somewhat Socrates' whole schtick, making the Athenians question and look at the world with curious eyes rather than knowing eyes. This I am sure will be further expanded upon once Plato introduces the analogy of the cave, which teaches us that what we see may not be reality, only a reality that is shown to us, or one we are capable of understanding. 

Which leads me into the next idea that was introduced in this text, forms. We get a small nugget of this idea when Socrates and Meno start breaking down "what is virtue". Meno tries to give a definition of virtue as many different things depending on your job, age gender and so on, but this Socrates bats away. The definition of a thing cannot be so many things. He explains to Meno, for example that we cannot define a shape this way. Sure we can say a shape may have the property of roundness but that is not true for all shapes and so there must be a better way to describe shapes than a collection of their properties. Socrates' definition in this example is 'the limit of a solid' which I think aside from the dialogue itself is a pretty good description. Therefore virtue cannot be thought of as the collected good deeds we do as a person depending on who we are, there must be one golden definition of virtue. Socrates is alluding to the 'form' of virtue, something we can immediately identify when we experience it. Everything in the world according to this philosophy, even thoughts, ideas, and concepts, has a true form and we as learners and thinkers must find this true form in order to fully know something. 

This brings Socrates into another concept which I find a little convoluted and metaphysical. He says that we actually know these forms from birth, they are part of our soul. Learning forms is really about remembering this sacred knowledge and uncovering it in the depths of our soul. I think this is convoluted for a couple reasons; today we know more about the human brain and we know more about evolution. Socrates teaches Meno's slave about geometry to prove this point, allowing this nameless slave to come to his own conclusions about the properties of geometry by being shown the error of his thinking (he originally thinks a square twice the area of another square should have twice the length of it's sides). Socrates uses this example as a way to say 'see, I didn't tell him the answer, he remembered the correct answer.' \
&emsp; We know more about the human mind now. We know that our brain developed pattern recognition to survive, such as identifying ripe fruit or the eyes of a predator animal. Our brains are built to learn and know stuff like this quickly. Socrates would have you believe that these traits were given to us by the gods and stored in the soul for retrieval. It's noteworthy that Socrates came to the conclusion of biological niche but one we can altogether dismiss in the present day.

Meno, desperately trying to bring the conversation back to the original topic, finally grabs Socrates' attention to it.
Socrates does surrender to the original question without defining Virtue, which in his eyes no one has ever been able to to anyways. 
The final argument boils down to this; if virtue can be learned, then it is wisdom and knowledge. Knowledge requires a teacher. If there are no teachers of virtue (dismissing the Sophists) then it cannot be taught, and therefore virtue is not knowledge alone, and therefore virtue cannot be learned. The dialogue ends without answering the questions fully, coming at a loss, but this is fine, and maybe even on purpose. We are suppose to jump off by ourselves, discuss what we think, learn and unlearn to come to the true form of the concepts. 

| As a side note, I am realizing that I have a hard endurance cap with Plato. Meno was short enough that I felt that I could read it all in one go, but also long enough that I my attention began to waiver near the end. I'm sure by the end I was missing critical points and forgetting to tie in the ones from before. But this is my best shot at my current age. Maybe one day I will revisit these dialogues, and maybe even this blog to come to better conclusions with a more practised attention span.