---
layout: signoff_post
title:  "Survival Horror in the early 2010's"
date:   2024-12-21
categories: gaming
---

When I think of survival horror only two video game franchises come to mind for me: Dead Space (DS) and Resident Evil (RE).
In my last video games related post I mentioned how I played 5 games between these two franchises in 2024, so you could say I am a fan.
But in my fandom I am starting to explore more of the games in the series, and getting into the later titles as I complete the earlier ones.
Now I have noticed a trend among these franchises specifically, and doing some research into Metacritic and YouTube reviews at the time of these title releases I can confirm that many people did not like what was happening to these franchises.
In short, they were moving away from survival horror and moving more towards action shooters, with only a small horror edge to it.

It is clear why studios were pressured to do this. Action 3rd person shooter franchises like Uncharted and Gears of War were making a boatload of money and execs didn't believe that survival horror could compete.
To add to this, companies like EA were just beginning to heavily push microtransactions into single player games, which people were very much against.
The product of this is three stinkers from RE and Dead Space from the years of 2009-2013.
I played all three of these stinkers over the past few years, and here are my thoughts.

## Resident Evil 5 (2009)

This game sucks. It sucks hot garbage. It is maybe one of the worst games I ever had the pleasure of playing.
Hot off the release of Resident Evil 4 I'm sure Capcom thought they could do no wrong.
Bu they did do wrong, lots of it.
My first grievance was that the slow stop-and-start moving and aiming that worked for RE4 did not work for RE5. 
RE4 was slow and spooky, and made the player stop and think about their actions, rewarding tight decisions and scaring you into fumbling.
RE5 turned up the octane and tried to make a fast action shooter with the same system.
The controls were just too slow and inaccurate to work for me, especially in the modern age of twin stick shooting.
I felt super limited and the entire game felt clunky.
The story and the voice acting was also dogshit. You were paired with another character the entire game and I couldn't like this character if you paid me to.
The setting was brown and sandy, with no life.
The final boss was weak.
The fans agree with me too.
If this game were to be remade into a twin stick action shooter with some bumps smoothed out I have no doubt I will enjoy it, but the 2009 release of this game was not it for me.

## Resident Evil 6 (2012)

This game was a little better than RE5 but I still would not consider it a good game.
They finally revamped the controls to use twin stick 3rd person shooting but did not bring back the survival horror elements of earlier titles.
The story was more unique than RE5 as well, with different characters you could play as with branching stories.
I didn't end up finishing this game though.
At the end of the day it is a mediocre zombie action shooter.
Definitely not something I am willing to waste my time playing.

## Dead Space 3 (2013)

This franchise could do no wrong after Dead Space 2. The last two games were amazing survival horror pieces with atmosphere, good difficulty, an interesting story, and great graphics.
DS3 on the other hand, again, fell pressure to the action shooter hype.
The prologue, and first mission of the game involve zippy shooting segments with automatic weapons.
They removed ammo types, opting for one type of ammo.
After the first mission I was swimming with ammo and health packs, whereas in DS1 I would be lucky to find even a small health pack in a level if my health was low (that's where real survival horror shines).
I couldn't believe when I saw it, but they actually added crouch and cover mechanics to the game, similar to Gears of War.
This was how I knew the franchise took it too far.
In addition, the game added gun customization. Cool right? NO! This was just another way that EA could sell you microtransactions as powerful upgrades could be purchased with real money.
I actually enjoyed the game a bit though. 
There were some moments where I felt like I was playing the old games with slow atmospheric tension. But the game overall had lost it's identity by that point. 

I am done going through the old games in RE and DS, and there's not much left for me now but remakes. The DS1 remake looks good, and the RE 2, 3,and 4 remakes were fantastic, I played all three. 
I am wondering what they do now. Remake RE 5 and 6 to make them better? I have no doubt the fans that hated the last games would enjoy some polish as they did RE4.
The DS2 remake was cancelled unfortunately, same old story, DS1 didn't make enough money.
I don't have hope for AAA game franchises anymore. 
The real heat these days is in indie games.
Maybe we'll see a new resurgence of survival horror in the indie scene one day.