---
layout: signoff_post
title:  "Toronto is to expensive"
date:   2024-12-10
categories: opinions
---

Toronto has become too damn expensive.
I am not certain who this city is built for, but it's definately not me.
What's sparking this soon-to-be rant, you ask?
The shuttle that goes from my closest subway terminal to my office was just cancelled. 
The company made budget cuts and now I am limited to taking the public bus and walking to the office from the closest bus stop.
It only takes about 10 extra minutes of bus time plus a 7-9min walk to the office but that adds up in the year.
I was spoiled by the shuttle, I know, not everyone get's a private shuttle to their work. 
But that was just one more thing that made working so far away from my homre worth it.

See, I live in Toronwo but I work in the GTA.
I keep a really good job and so it was always worth it to commute.
Plus, my partner works in Torono so at most only one of us needed to commute far. 
I don't own a car for financial and environmental reasons, and so I take the subway and bus everywhere.
(Though, my partner does own a car so I can't say I'm fully indoctrinated).

Byt now my commute options are now reduced to ths:
1. A 70min journey both ways, to and from my office for the rest of my life
2. Move closer to the office.

The problem is, I can't move!
Toronto and the GTA are far too expensive.
I won't find a cheap place to rent, and I cetainly can't buy.
And my biggest issue is that I should be able to, me more than most.
I am a Software Developer working for a fortune 500 company. 
I have a great job and even I can't affort to live here.
So how can anyone else live here?
How is a young person suppose to progress in this city?
It's impossible.

Such a tiny thing to make me spiral, a luxury shuttle that took me to work.
So many people would have been lucky to have that.
And I did.
But now I take the public bus, it's just one more thing that reminds me that I am a scrub in this city just like everyone else.
One less luxury. 
It feel hopeless.
