---
layout: signoff_post
title:  "Greedy two-pointer array algorithms"
date:   2025-02-03
categories: programming
---

When I was interviewing for my current job I was pretty active on LeetCode for general practice when it comes to Java.
LeetCode gets a lot of slack for being ineffectual in real-work code but I disagree that it is altogether a poor resource for learning.
It makes you think in unique scenarios and teaches you new stuff when you need some tips on the problem you're solving.

Case in point, I had to learn how to do a greedy two-pointer array program that I still can't exactly wrap my head around completely. 
I started working through this playlist of problems [Top Interview 150]( called https://leetcode.com/studyplan/top-interview-150/) intending to do it all in Java.
I had a good going doing easy questions until I reached this medium question: 

> Given an integer array __nums__ sorted in non-decreasing order, remove some duplicates [in-place](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm) such that each unique element appears at most twice. The relative order of the elements should be kept the same.
> Since it is impossible to change the length of the array in some languages, you must instead have the result be placed in the first part of the array __nums__. More formally, if there are k elements after removing the duplicates, then the first k elements of __nums__ should hold the final result. It does not matter what you leave beyond the first k elements.
> Return k after placing the final result in the first k slots of __nums__.
> Do not allocate extra space for another array. You must do this by modifying the input array [in-place](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm) with O(1) extra memory.

I like the idea of in-memory algorithms because they are super performant and make you think about problems how older generation programing was done, when memory was scarce. 
My first solution to this problem was as follows:

```
public int removeDuplicates(int[] nums) {
    int n = nums.length;
    if (n == 2) {
        return 2;
    } else if (n == 1) {
        return 1;
    }

    for (int i = 2; i < n;) {
        if (nums[i] == nums[i - 1] && nums[i] == nums[i - 2]) {
            moveToEnd(nums, i, n--);
        } else {
            i++;
        }
    }
    return n;
}

private void moveToEnd(int[] nums, int index, int places) {
    for (int i = index; i < places - 1; i++) {
        int tmp = nums[i + 1];
        nums[i + 1] = nums[i];
        nums[i] = tmp;
    }
}
```

My thinking was pretty straightforward, if an element appeared for a third time in the sorted array then I would shift it all the way to the end of the array and decrement the `n` length variable. But when I went to submit this answer I got a poor result, bottom 5% in fact. Apparently this problem can be done in `O(n)` time and my algorithm was `O(n log n)` which is much less performant. I thought hard about what the solution could be, even ripping apart some paper and writing numbers on them to try and rework the elements by hand. I had to use the hints, and the solution that I ended up with was like this:
```
public int removeDuplicates(int[] nums) {
	int j = 0;
	for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
		if (j < 2 || nums[i] > nums[j - 2]) {
			nums[j++] = nums[i];
		}
	}
	return j;
}
```
Insane how much more simple it was compared to what I wrote. This function hinges on the condition `if (j < 2 || nums[i] > nums[j - 2]) nums[j++] = nums[i]` which is not fitting the mould of my brain for some reason, I can't visualize it and that's probably why I couldn't get it in the first place. The solution uses a two-pointer loop, one iterating through the array and another lagging behind to overwrite elements in the array. It is a Greedy Algorithm because each iteration of this condition is executed locally without looking at the whole array, understanding that the local actions will add up to the correct solution. 

I am still wrapping my head around this one and getting my understanding of it to a place where I can confidently come up with solutions like this on my own.

| Small side note, I was listening to the song "All I Need" by Radiohead on loop the whole time I was working on this problem.