---
layout: signoff_post
title:  "Just some thoughts on writing"
date:   2025-09-30
categories: thoughts
---

Today, I come back to this blog to think about what I want to do. Every time I wonder what I can do with my life, my interests always seem to come back to writing. Specifically, it would be cool to write a book in my lifetime, even if it never gets published. But that would require me to write horribly, since I am extremely unpractised and unskilled in creative writing. 

There were a few posts on Instagram that may have brought me back to this. The first was a writing tip that I saw about maintaining momentum. Sometimes you can get into a groove when it comes to writing and you need to keep going whatever you do. You cannot stop, even now I am trying to write without using my backspace button and I am letting myself make mistakes that I will come back to and correct later. And one thing I can do to keep this momentum when something comes up that I do not know about is to use these [square brackets]. I can do something like "The [adjective] man walked up the [adjective] [hill name] and he thought about [something]". This allows me to come back and fill in the ideas later without losing my pace. I think it's a cool tip.

And the other thing I saw on Instagram, that always resonated with me, was Dan Harmon’s idea about ‘running your brain on shit’. Writer’s block is you thinking that you are a good writing, and wanting to write something good, but for you to write something good you need to write something bad, repeatedly. So, to write something good, you need to switch your mindset to "proving" to yourself that you are a bad writer repeatedly, rather than proving that you’re good, and in the process, you will become a good writer.  It's like "running your car on shit" as he puts it, in his so elegant way of speaking, a way to trick yourself into practising. 

| This guy Dan Harmon by the way, everything he makes is genius and it feels like his humor has a one-way highway directly into my brain. I just jive with it. But I can acknowledge that others may find him crass and creepy, especially due to his sexual harassment scandal that he apologized for on his podcast “Harmontown” (a podcast in which I listened to every episode of). Anyways, just a thought on this guy. No one is perfect, especially him, but I respect his work. 

Maybe I'll keep writing in this blog again. I think one thing that destroyed my ambitions about writing in it was my book reviews. I do not need to be reviewing books and giving them ratings. No one cares about my opinion about books other than me. It's vain, and I do not want to come off as a snobby and opinionated pretender who thinks he has nuanced thoughts about literature. I will no longer be rating books, and I am deleting the ratings I made on my old book posts. If I make a post about a book, I will simply convey if I enjoyed it or if it wasn't for me. 

For now, I have this post. And it felt good to write in. I zoomed in my IDE that I write these posts in to be "closer" to the words, and it feels good. Then I pasted it into Microsoft Word for review. I let my hands feel free to produce onto the screen whatever is in my brain, and I will come back to it and revise it later. This liberation gives me ambition to keep writing. I think this also gives me incentive to heavily revise my work before I post, which is going to make my writing seem all the better.
