---
layout: book_post
date:   2024-11-04
categories: interest
book_url: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49552.The_Stranger
author_url: https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/957894.Albert_Camus
cover_url: https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1481459507i/17160066._SX150_.jpg
title: The Stranger
author: Albert Camus
synopsis: |
 Published in 1942 by French author Albert Camus, The Stranger has long been considered a classic of twentieth-century literature. Le Monde ranks it as number one on its "100 Books of the Century" list. Through this story of an ordinary man unwittingly drawn into a senseless murder on a sundrenched Algerian beach, Camus explores what he termed "the nakedness of man faced with the absurd."
---

Yesterday I finished "The Stranger" ("The Outsider") by Camus. It was short but I found that it was dense with meaning. I'll try to explain what I learned without sounding pompous or high-minded, as most books reviews tend to be.

The books used allegorical characterization and  ideological personification (I used ChatGPT to learn that just now) to emboody Camus' absurdist ideals into a character in order to display how absurdist philosophy can be scrutinized by the non-absurd society. A similar concept was used in a book I read called "The Fountainhead" by Ayn Rand with Howard Roark embodying Rand's objectivism. In "The Stranger", a character who does not lie to himself sees the repercussions of his attitude from those who do lie to themselves for the sake of comfy order. 

The book lead me to further investigate the concept of absurdism. I cannot say entirely that this philosphy should embody one's whole perspective on the universe. I doubt any can for that matter. It is a very hard outlook on reality and a tough buy-in. Though, I get the feeling that if I can think this way about some events in my life then it actually alleviates the work of carrying any mental load about these events. It can actually make you feel lighter when you realize that something bad didn't happen to you because of any reason or penalty of order. If everything is random and chaotic then who cares if I spilt my entire container of leftovers at lunch (I actually did do this last week), that's all part of the chaos.

Something to think about, but not something to think about too hard on. I like any book that makes me reflect on deeper matters. But let's not get lost in the sauce. 