---
layout: signoff_post
title:  "Thoughts on Faked Enthusiasm"
date:   2024-11-05
categories: opinions
---

I try to be mindful about being negative in general, but especially on the internet I try a little bit harder to look like a positive person.
Lost in the nuance is that I am extremely negative about a few very specific things but mostly positive about most things. 
I can't write about how I hate something without feeling the need to specify this. 
Which is why I write this preamble for the real topic.

I can't stand fake enthusiasm. It makes me want to throw my phone into the ocean, or launch it into the sun.
I see most of this fake enthusiasm with social media work culture on LinkedIn and 'grindset' culture on Instagram and YouTube. 
I will admit that I am a part of that cesspool—the fact that I promote my [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/stefandecimelli/) on this very blog is not lost on me—and maybe this is why I hate it so much, because I see myself in it.

There's nothing worse than seeing an old friend post about their MLM conference trying to make it seem like they are changing the world, when really they're just ripping people off with bad financial products.
Almost as bad are the posts I see every single day about how everyone is "so excited and proud to announce" that they've obtained a non-technical certificate for proof of completion of a 3-4 hour machine learning course. As if you can learn machine learning in 3 hours.
People are so compelled to share their small achievements in order to make them real and to obtain praise. 
Then they feel like they did something worthwhile, leveled up, and maybe even upgraded their professional rankings in their peers' eyes.

It's a sickness that we all have. Achievements are alike to intellectual capital and we all aim to horde them. 
It makes us feel like we're doing better than the next guy. 
I am probably on the other end of the spectrum where I don't even hang up my degree on my wall since it seems like an accomplishment that only my parents and I care about. 
So why bother? I know I graduated, they know I graduated, and it all ends up printed in black and white on a resume anyways. 

I do think people can be proud of their small achievements, don't get me wrong, but they deserve as much praise as they deserve.
If you get a promotion, just add it to your profile. Don't post about it. If you go to a conference, don't make it seem like you went to the Vatican.
Call your loved ones and if you have done something worth praise then will you'll hear and see real enthusiasm.
